For this lesson, I'm navigating to my time series forecasting
directory into my energy consumption exercise notebook.
In this notebook, I want to address the task of time series forecasting.
A time series is any data collected over time and time series forecasting is
involved in so many applications from
weather forecasting to sales and stock market prediction,
and even in predicting traffic congestion patterns in a city over a day.
So it's a really good skill to have.
Many traditional time series algorithms use
a linear regression model to basically fit a series of
data in a historical timeframe and then
extrapolate from that data to predict future points.
So even something like a linear learner can be used to do time series analysis.
Only the problem is that these models often
struggle with accounting for complex patterns.
For example, they don't do so well in cases like predicting the rise and fall of
the stock market and they struggle with seasonal or a long-term patterns,
for example, in weather prediction in which there are
differences in temperature according to the time of year.
So in this example,
I just want to show you one algorithm that I think is pretty
cool and useful for time series analysis,
and that is the built-in algorithm; DeepAR.
DeepAR is a supervised learning algorithm for
forecasting time series using recurrent neural networks or RNNs.
RNNs have the potential to improve on traditional models
by giving us a way to look at specific windows of data,
basically taking in some set of historical points as input and
trying to produce the next sequence of points as predicted output.
In the case of DeepAR,
it trains by looking at a training dataset made of several time series.
It trains by randomly sampling training examples from the time series.
Each example consists of a pair of
adjacent context and prediction windows of fixed predefined length.
The context length defines how far in the past the model can see.
The prediction length controls how far in the future predictions can be made.
You can read more about how DeepAR learns in this documentation.
Here you can see samples taken over a time series where
we get a variety of different contexts and predictions.
Since DeepAR trains on several time series,
it's well suited for data that exhibit recurring patterns.
In any forecasting task,
you should choose the context window to provide
enough relevant information so that a model can produce accurate predictions.
In general, data points closest to the prediction timeframe will
contain the information that's most influential in defining that prediction.
The data we'll be working with in this notebook is data
about global household electric power consumption.
The dataset is originally taken from Kaggle and
represents power consumption collected over several years,
from 2006 through 2010.
With such a large dataset,
we can aim to predict over long periods of time,
over days, weeks or months of time.
Predicting power consumption is useful for predicting
power storage and delivery needs for a population.
I've link to an interesting article here that was
recently published that does something kind of similar.
Google and DeepMind built some model to predict
energy generation by windmills and it's a pretty cool application.
Our workflow will be pretty typical going from loading in this data to processing it,
formatting it, and uploading it to S3 than training,
deploying, and evaluating a model.
I'd suggest you follow along in a SageMaker notebook in another tab and next,
a load in and process the data.